[kommander][2.1.1]feat: ws catalog appd & use CR in project (#3955)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/application-deployment/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Application Deployment
title: Deployment of Applications
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: Deploy applications to attached clusters using the CLI
---

> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD004 MD040 -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

This topic describes how to use the CLI to deploy a workspace catalog application to attached clusters within a workspace.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you must have:

- A running cluster with [Kommander installed](../../../../install/).
- An [existing Kubernetes cluster attached to Kommander](../../../../clusters/attach-cluster/).

Set the `WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of the workspace's namespace where the cluster is attached:

```sh
export WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE=<workspace_namespace>
```

## Deploy the application

> The list of available applications that can be deployed on the attached cluster can be found [in this documentation](../../catalog-applications#workspace-catalog-applications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the list of available applications that can be deployed on the attached cluster [in this documentation](../../catalog-applications#workspace-catalog-applications).
```

Author: going to use Casie's suggestion above for this one since that one also eliminates "be deployed"

Author: done

1.  Deploy a supported application to [your existing attached cluster](../../../../clusters/attach-cluster/) with an `AppDeployment` resource.

> 1.  Within the `AppDeployment`, define the `appRef` to specify which `App` will be deployed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Within the `AppDeployment`, define the `appRef` to specify which `App` to deploy:
```

Author: done

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Application Deployment
title: Deployment of Applications
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: Deploy applications to attached clusters using the CLI
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD004 MD040 -->

This topic describes how to use the CLI to deploy a workspace catalog application to attached clusters within a workspace.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you must have:

- A running cluster with [Kommander installed](../../../../install/).
- An [existing Kubernetes cluster attached to Kommander](../../../../clusters/attach-cluster/).

> Set the `WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of the workspace's namespace where the cluster is attached:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the `WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of the workspace's namespace the attached cluster exists:
```

```sh
export WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE=<workspace_namespace>
```

## Deploy the application

> The list of available applications that can be deployed on the attached cluster can be found [in this documentation](../../catalog-applications#workspace-catalog-applications).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [workspace catalog applications](../../catalog-applications#workspace-catalog-applications) for the list of available applications that can be deployed on the attached cluster.
```

Author: done

1.  Deploy a supported application to [your existing attached cluster](../../../../clusters/attach-cluster/) with an `AppDeployment` resource.

> 1.  Within the `AppDeployment`, define the `appRef` to specify which `App` will be deployed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Within the `AppDeployment`, define the `appRef` to specify which `App` to deployed:
```

Author: Using Colin's version below

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: apps.kommander.d2iq.io/v1alpha2
    kind: AppDeployment
    metadata:
      name: cert-manager
      namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      appRef:

>         name: cert-manager-0.2.7

Reviewer 3: should we use an `App` in this example instead of a `ClusterApp` so it follows more closely with how workspace catalog applications will work? (same with the custom config example below)

Reviewer 2: I don't have a strong opinion here, but consistency is what we strive for in docs, so I say make it consistent with the workspace catalog application.

Author: Agree. Updated

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Application Deployment
title: Deployment of Applications
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: Deploy applications to attached clusters using the CLI
---

This topic describes how to use the CLI to deploy a workspace catalog application to attached clusters within a workspace.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you must have:

- A running cluster with [Kommander installed](../../../../install/).
- An [existing Kubernetes cluster attached to Kommander](../../../../clusters/attach-cluster/).

> Set the `WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of the workspace's namespace the attached cluster exists:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Set the `WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE` environment variable to the name of the workspace's namespace the attached cluster exists in:
```

Author: done
